
This repository provides the code to reproduce the results from the submitted paper DR-CFGNN: A Completion-Aware Framework for Counterfactual Explainability in Graph Neural Networks. 




**Note 1:** We explicitly state that our work was built on top of the DIG library https://github.com/divelab/DIG.git and the survey paper https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.15445 by Yuan et al. The authors of the survey evaluated numerous state-of-the-art explanation methods for Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) and developed an open source library for GNN explainability, released as part of the DIG library. In our work, we build on top of their GitHub repository. 'dig' from their github contains multiple folders such as auggraph, fairgraph, ggraph, ggraph3D, lsgraph, oodgraph, sslgraph, threedgraph and xgraph. We kept only the relevant folder, xgraph, and modified some of its scripts in order to create the incomplete synthetic dataset and inject noise. 




**Note 2:** The name MELD corresponds to the original naming of our system (later updated to DR-CFGNN) and is tightly integrated into the code. This does not affect the functionality of the framework.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Step 0 :** 

The synthetic datasets and BBBP will be created automatically by running any of the codes below and will be saved in a folder called dataset inside `DIG/benchmarks/xgraph/`. Download the datasets Graph-SST2, Graph-SST5, and Twitter manually from Google Drive using the link displayed in the command line prompt.




**Step 1 :** 

Train the models by opening a terminal in the `DIG` folder and run: 

`python -m benchmarks.xgraph.train_gnns datasets=ba_2motifs`

Alternatively, download the checkpoints provided by the paper https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.15445 by Yuan et al. from <https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/19krHmYpGDmR4abDB3bz0fVLYUeFmsmR7> and save them in a folder named checkpoints inside `DIG/benchmarks/xgraph/`. 




**Step 2 :** 

Train the explainer by opening a terminal in the `DIG` folder and run: 

`python -m benchmarks.xgraph.subgraphx datasets=ba_2motifs explainers=subgraphx`

Alternatively, download the factual explanations from SubgraphX from <<https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1zNm9i1XvAMeZsmvzS1fyeIwpnaU8AkK7>>. 




**Step 3 :**

Train the edge addition model by opening a terminal in the `DIG` folder and run:

`python -m benchmarks.xgraph.link_prediction datasets=ba_2motifs`. 

This will create the folder checkpoints_lp.




**Step 4 :** 

Run DR-CFGNN framework by opening a terminal in the `DIG/benchmarks/xgraph` folder and run: 

`python experiments.py`. 

This will generate a folder named `MELD`, which contains subfolders titled with the dataset and the parameters. Inside these subfolders, there are the counterfactuals generated by the reconstruction step (folder named `MELD_whole_graph`), the deconsturcion step (folder named `MELD_msg`), the deconstruction/reconsturiocn step (folder named `MELD_link_prediction`) and by the `naive_random_baseline`. Note: Before running the script, you must manually specify the dataset name and the parameters you chose.




**Step 5 :** 

Run `count_stats.py` to compute the evaluation metrics. Define the dataset name inside the count_stats.py script before running it.




-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
**Experiments for Robustness**: 
 
Copy DIG folder and name it DIG_ROBUSTNESS (done it).

Go to `DIG_ROBUSTNESS/dig/xgraph/dataset/syn_dataset.py` and `nlp_dataset.py` and add noise in the test graphs (done it).

Delete from DIG_ROBUSTNESS
--cfexplainer_plots (new plots will produced), 
--datasets (new datasets will produced), 
--MELD & results (new plots will produced)
and rerun all the above process.

To produce the robustness metrics for CFExplainers variants, `robustness_cfexplainer.py` was used. 
For the robustness metrics in our method, `robustness_MELD.py` script was used. 





                  
